# What is Container
Container is the running instance of Image.
A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably across computing environments.

# What is Container Image
convenient way to package up applications and preconfigured application environments,
that includes everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries and settings.

`Container images become containers at runtime and in the case of Docker containers - images become containers when they run on Docker Engine.`

# what is docker file
A Docker file is **a template that contains a set of instructions for creating a container that can run on the Docker platform**

# What is Docker
Docker is a Containerization platform which packages your application and all its dependencies together in the form Of a Containers, 
to ensure that your application works seamlessly in any environment be it Development,Test or Production.

# Virtualization vs Containerization
Virtualization enables you to run multiple operating systems on the hardware of a single physical server, 
while containerization enables you to deploy multiple applications using the same operating system on a single virtual machine or server. 

Containerization is virtualization at OS level.
Virtualization is virtulization at hardware level.

# How to Stop and restart docker containers?
- docker stop <cont_ID>
- docker restart <cont_ID>

# What is docker compose ?
Docker Compose is **a tool that was developed to help define and share multi-container applications**. With Compose, we can create a YAML file to define the services and with a single command, can spin everything up or tear it all down.

# Where are docker volumes stored ?
Volumes are stored in a part of the host filesystem which is managed by Docker ( **/var/lib/docker/volumes/ on Linux**).

# What does the docker info command do?
**displays system wide information regarding the Docker installation**. 
Information displayed includes the kernel version, number of containers and images.

# List the most commonly used instructions in Dockerfile?
FROM: You must have noticed that almost all the dockerfile starts with the FROM command.
RUN : run specified commands.
CMD: ENTRYPOINT

# Difference between RUN and CMD ?
       
# Can you differentiate between Daemon Logging and Container Logging?
Docker container logs are **generated by the** Docker containers. They need to be collected directly from the containers.

# What is the best way of deleting a container?
docker stop Continer ID & docker rm -f Container_ID

# What is docker hub ?
Docker Hub is a repository service provided by Docker for finding and sharing container images.

# what is docker swarm ?
Docker Swarm is a container orchestration tool that allows us to manage multiple containers across different host machines.

# What is the functionality of a hypervisor?
A hypervisor provides virtulization at hardware level.
It enables us to share heardware with multiple guest VMs. 
i.e use a single host computer to support multiple guest virtual machines.

# How do you build a Dockerfile?
using `docker build command`

# How do you ensure that container 1 runs before container 2 while using Docker Compose?
using `depends-on`

# What platforms does Docker run on ?
All linux platforms
Windows and mac are supported on for dev, not for production.