# What is Jenkins ?
Jenkins is a open-source CI/CD tool,  written in java with plugins built for CI/CD purpose.

# Define the process of Jenkins?
- commit the changes
- detect source code changes
- The build either passes or fails
- Generate feedback

# Benefits of using Jenkins?
- Automatic build report notification
- Achieves continuous integration
- Easy tracking of bugs

# What are the pre reqs to use Jenkins?
- A source code repository
- A working build script, eg a Maven script.

# Mention some of the useful plugins in Jenkins?
- git
- copy artifacts
- Green balls

# How to install Jenkins?
- Install Java
- Install apache tom cat
- Download jenkins war file
- Deploy jenkins war file
- Install suggested plugins

# Which SCM tools Jenkins supports?
It supports almost all the SCM tools.
ex: - git
      - subversion
      - mercurial

# How will you define post in Jenkins?
Post is a section that contains several additional steps that might execute after the completion of the pipeline.

# What are parameters in Jenkins?
Parameters are supported by agent section and they are used to support various use-case pipelines.

# What are the various ways in which build can be scheduled in Jenkins ?
- SCM commits
- completion of other builds
- Run at a specific time
- manual build requests.

# What is pipeline?
it gives us the view of stages or tasks to perform one after the other in the pipeline form.

Jenkins Pipeline (or simply “Pipeline”) is a suite of plugins which supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins.

# What are the different types of pipelines
Scripted pipeline 
Declarative pipeline

# Jenkins pipeline: agent vs node ?
The simple answer is, **Agent** is for **declarative** pipelines and **node** is for **scripted** pipelines.

# What are the ways to configure Jenkins node agent to communicate with Jenkins master?
There are two ways to start the node agent - Browser and command line.

# How does Jenkins authenticate users?
There are 3 ways
- Default /built in way - User inforamtion is stored with in the Jenkins
- application server
- LDAP server

# Explain the terms Agent, post section, jenkins file?
jenkinsfile: text file where all the definitions of pipeline are defined.


# Copy data from one jenkins agent to another 
- use plugin - publish over ssh
- use scp command in ssh step

# What is the difference between Maven, Ant and Jenkins? 
Maven and Ant are Build tools, whereas Jenkins is a continuous integration(CI/CD) tool.

# Explain what is continuous integration? 
When multiple developers or teams are working on different segments of same web application, we need to perform integration test by integrating all the modules. To do that an automated process for each piece of code is performed on daily bases so that all your code gets tested. And this whole process is termed as continuous integration.

# What is the relation between Hudson and Jenkins? 
Hudson was the earlier name of current Jenkins. After some issue faced, the project name was changed from Hudson to Jenkins.

# How you automate the whole build and release process? 
• Check out a set of source code files. 
• Compile the code and report on progress along the way. 
• Run automated unit tests against successful compiles. 
• Create an installer. 
• Publish the installer to a download site, and notify teams that the installer is available. 
• Run the installer to create an installed executable. 
• Run automated tests against the executable. 
• Report the results of the tests. 
• Launch a subordinate project to update standard libraries. 
• Promote executables and other files to QA for further testing. 
• Deploy finished releases to production environments, such as Web servers

The above process will be done by Jenkins by creating the jobs.

# How you will take backup for Jenkins? 
Copy JENKINS_HOME directory to replicate it in another server.
this contains the build jobs, Slave node configuration and build history.

**JENKINS_HOME** directory contains all the details of your [Jenkins server configuration](https://dzone.com/articles/running-jenkins-server-with-configuration-as-code), details that you configure in the Manage Jenkins screen. These configuration details are stored in the form of a set of XML files. Much of the core configuration is stored in the config.xml file.

## How to change JENKINS_HOME directory?
Jenkins -> Managa jenkins -> system information -> environment variables

# Jenkins work space ?
The workspace directory is **where Jenkins builds your project**: it contains the source code Jenkins checks out, plus any files generated by the build itself. This workspace is reused for each successive build.

All the jenkins build activity happens under Jenkins workspace
```
/var/lib/jenkins/workspace/<jobname>
```
# What is the backup plugin and why is it used?
This is a useful plugin that backup all the critical settings and configurations to be used in the future.

# In how many ways you can install the Jenkins? 
We can install Jenkins in 3 Ways 
• By downloading Jenkins archive file 
• By running as a service Java –jar Jenkins.war 
• By deploying Jenkins.war to the webapps folder in tomcat.

# What are labels and how they are used
When creating a new slave node, Jenkins allows us to tag a slave node with a label. Labels **represent a way of naming one or more slaves**. We leverage this labeling system to tie the execution of a job directly to one or more slave nodes.

# Jenkins VS Bamboo
Jenkins | Bamboo
------- | ------
open-source | Not an open-source
Completely free | Charges for the number of build agents required
Cross platform compatable | Works on Windows,Linux and Solaris
Windows,Ubuntu,Red-Hat, MacOS<br/> Supports Chrome,Firefox,IE | Supports Chrome.Firefox,Safari and edge
Huge availability of plugins | Less number of plugins when compared with Jenkins
Being open-source has lot of community support |  
